# rgb

Were going to explore a website that you run right on your desktop today. Use a text document to answer the questions.

1.  Open the index.html file inside of the rgb folder.

2.  Play the game for a few minutes, get to know it, change the difficulty.

    a. How would you expand the game? What options or settings could you add?
    I could expand this game by adding another level. Instead of the guessing the color, the users could guess the RGB or a different type of color method used in programming. I would settings that enabled some type of hint or short explantion of the color wheel.

3.  Using this documentation https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction to guide you:

    a. What is the DOM?
    DOM is the document object model. DOM an interface for the the browser/web. It creates a tree strutre of objects that present the web development document. It provides a basis of communication between different types of web development documents. example, it allows JS to connect to the HTML. JS now has a reference to the HTML document.

    b. When is the DOM different than HTML?
    HTML is a markup language that defines the structure of the web page. DOM is not a language it, but it builts structure based on the HTML. It may even correct some errors within the HTML

    //UPDATE: 3C CANCELED VIA INSTRUCTOR CHAT
    c. What is the state of the DOM when you first load the page?
    HTML is parsed. Javascript can make some changes prior to the full DOM. The DOM is not pre-established. It is built when loading the page.

    //UPDATE: 3D CANCELED VIA INSTRUCTOR CHAT
    d. What is the state of the DOM if you turn off JavaScript and refresh the page?
    Uponn refresh, the Java remains disable. The DOM still functions but the JS functions/applications do not function until reenabled.

4.  Now let's explore the code. Use the inspector to investigate the HTML, CSS and Javascript.

    a. Which parts of UI are being generated by the HTML file? The CSS? The JavaScript?
    HTML: creates basic structure, objects, and text
    CSS: stylize the website, such as layout, box modeling, and coloration.
    JavaScript: increases interactivity of the web page. Provides the ability to include complex functions and features into the site.

    b. What happens inside the CSS file when you click on various elements in the page?
    The CSS file is does not apply any new changes to the site. However, the if the inspect is open, it will jump to what the CSS applies to.

        i.  What elements does the CSS file change? 
            The CSS file changes any element that it is tagged to. It can change things like outlines, image sizes, colors, text and more.

    c. What happens inside the HTML file when you click on various elements in the page?
    The html file does not change the website when you click. However if the inspect if open, it will jump to what that code is applied to it.

    UPADTE: 4D CANCELED VIA INSTRUCTOR CHAT
    d. Use breakpoints in the JavaScript to walk through what happens when you click on various elements on the page.

        i.  What happens when you click on a color block?

        ii.  What happens when you click on the winning color block? 

        iii.  What happens when you click "Play again"? 

        iv.  What HTML and CSS elements can JavaScript change? 

        v.  How does score keeping work? 

        vi.  Why does it persist through closing the page? 

        vii.  When you win what happens when the title changes? 

        viii.  What does Asynchronous mean in the context of JavaScript? 

        ix.  What is the fetch function inside of updateColorName? 

        x.  What does it do? 

        xi.  What's an alternative to using fetch? 

        xii.  Why use one over the other? 

5.  Add comments to the JavaScript code explaining what you think each function does.

6.  As you went through this process which of the 3E's did you draw from most? How?

    a. Curiosity, Deal with Uncertainty, Observation
    I drew from uncertainty the most. I have not used JavaScript before. I only knew that JavaScript was a language for the internet. I was unsure that I could relate how DOM, HTML and DOM worked together. Figuring out hte purpose for each function was not too overwhelming. With some internet assistance and instructor sesstions, I feel that I am more confidence that I will learn and apply Javascript.

7.  Push your changes to Git.

Other Resources:

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage

- https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/javascript

source: https://css-tricks.com/dom/
